.TH SPHINX_PITCH 1 "2007-05-12"
.SH NAME
sphinx_pitch \- Extract pitch from audio files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sphinx_pitch
[\fI options \fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This program reads audio files and analyzes them for pitch and voicing.
.TP
.B \-c
file for batch processing
.TP
.B \-di
directory, input file names are relative to this, if defined
.TP
.B \-do
directory, output files are relative to this
.TP
.B \-ei
extension to be applied to all input files
.TP
.B \-eo
extension to be applied to all output files
.TP
.B \-flen
Number of seconds in each analysis frame (needs to be greater than twice the longest period you wish to detect - to detect down to 80Hz you need a frame length of 2.0/80 = 0.025).
.TP
.B \-fshift
Frame shift: number of seconds between each analysis frame.
.TP
.B \-i
audio input file
.TP
.B \-input_endian
of audio data (will be determined automatically if not given)
.TP
.B \-mswav
Defines input format as Microsoft Wav (RIFF)
.TP
.B \-nist
Defines input format as NIST sphere
.TP
.B \-nskip
If a control file was specified, the number of utterances to skip at the head of the file
.TP
.B \-o
text output file (standard output will be used if not given)
.TP
.B \-raw
Defines input format as raw binary data
.TP
.B \-runlen
If a control file was specified, the number of utterances to process (see \fB\-nskip\fR too)
.TP
.B \-samprate
Sampling rate of audio data (will be determined automatically if 0)
.TP
.B \-search_range
Fraction of the best local estimate to use as a search range for smoothing.
.TP
.B \-smooth_window
Number of frames on either side of the current frame to use for smoothing.
.TP
.B \-voice_thresh
Threshold of normalized difference under which to search for the fundamental period.
.SH AUTHOR
David Huggins-Daines <dhuggins@cs.cmu.edu>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2007-2008 Carnegie Mellon University.  See the file
\fICOPYING\fR included with this package for more information.
.br
