.TH SPHINX_CONT_SEG 1 "2008-05-12"
.SH NAME
sphinx_cont_seg \- Segment a waveform file into non-silence regions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sphinx_cont_seg
[\fI options \fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This program reads an input file and segments it into individual
non-silence regions. It can process either file or read data from
microphone. Use following arguments:
.TP
.B \-adcdev
of audio device to use for input.
.TP
.B \-alpha
Preemphasis parameter
.TP
.B \-argfile
file giving extra arguments.
.TP
.B \-dither
Add 1/2-bit noise
.TP
.B \-doublebw
Use double bandwidth filters (same center freq)
.TP
.B \-frate
Frame rate
.TP
.B \-infile
of audio file to use for input.
.TP
.B \-input_endian
Endianness of input data, big or little, ignored if NIST or MS Wav
.TP
.B \-lifter
Length of sin-curve for liftering, or 0 for no liftering.
.TP
.B \-logspec
Write out logspectral files instead of cepstra
.TP
.B \-lowerf
Lower edge of filters
.TP
.B \-ncep
Number of cep coefficients
.TP
.B \-nfft
Size of FFT
.TP
.B \-nfilt
Number of filter banks
.TP
.B \-remove_dc
Remove DC offset from each frame
.TP
.B \-remove_noise
Remove noise with spectral subtraction in mel-energies
.TP
.B \-remove_silence
Enables VAD, removes silence frames from processing
.TP
.B \-round_filters
Round mel filter frequencies to DFT points
.TP
.B \-samprate
Sampling rate
.TP
.B \-seed
Seed for random number generator; if less than zero, pick our own
.TP
.B \-singlefile
a single cleaned file.
.TP
.B \-smoothspec
Write out cepstral-smoothed logspectral files
.TP
.B \-transform
Which type of transform to use to calculate cepstra (legacy, dct, or htk)
.TP
.B \-unit_area
Normalize mel filters to unit area
.TP
.B \-upperf
Upper edge of filters
.TP
.B \-vad_postspeech
Num of silence frames to keep after from speech to silence.
.TP
.B \-vad_prespeech
Num of speech frames to keep before silence to speech.
.TP
.B \-vad_startspeech
Num of speech frames to trigger vad from silence to speech.
.TP
.B \-vad_threshold
Threshold for decision between noise and silence frames. Log-ratio between signal level and noise level.
.TP
.B \-verbose
Show input filenames
.TP
.B \-warp_params
defining the warping function
.TP
.B \-warp_type
Warping function type (or shape)
.TP
.B \-wlen
Hamming window length
.SH AUTHOR
Written by M. K. Ravishankar <rkm@cs.cmu.edu>.  This (rather lousy) manual page
by David Huggins-Daines <dhuggins@cs.cmu.edu>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1999-2001 Carnegie Mellon University.  See the file
\fICOPYING\fR included with this package for more information.
.br
